All right enough talk.
Let's process some images and use our Python knowledge.
Now you might be thinking that image processing is something that you can do on your machine using something
like Photoshop even using a simple editing software.
But where this tool really shines is when we have to process hundreds thousands of images.
You can do things really really fast with Python so let's get started with this.
I've actually attached to this lesson a poke index for you and this poke index has all these cute little
pockmarks.
We have bubbles are we have Charmander we have Pikachu we have Squirtle it's great.
They're all extremely cute.
And by the way a little bonus just for taking this course no other course is going to teach you this.
Get ready for it.
You ready was our original name in Japanese is for shaggy done it Charmander ball Charmander is he took
it and then pick it you while he could choose just peek at you and then Squirtle is then you got it.
There you go.
Free Japanese lesson.
Bonus for this Python course.
Yes this is that good of a course.
All right.
Let's get back to some serious stuff we have these images.
Let's see what we can do with them.
I'm going to have an image dog pie file so you can just create this on your own and I'm using sublime
text here and my command prompt.
But you can use whatever you want and what I'm about to show you is something that remember you can
always reference in the official documentation when learning a library.
There's nothing better than the official documentation.
Right.
And we see over here that the first thing we need to do is to actually import the module just like this
so let's go back here and say from pill import Image.
So now we can do something pretty exciting.
The first thing we can do is say image equals image that we've imported and just simply say open now
in here we just give it a file path that we want to open in our case.
Let's open up Peek At You dot JPEG.
So I'm going to say dot slash which means current directory.
And remember we're in the image playground directory.
And I want to go inside of the poke index folder so I'm going to say Poke index and say slash Peek At
You.
Make sure I spell peek at you right here
dot JPEG and let's just print the image here to see what we get going to save and run this file.
So I'm going to say Python 3 and run the image dot pi file
images dot pi file because that's the name.
There you go.
We get an object here.
You see it's a pill object.
It's a JPEG image plugin JPEG image file and it tells me exactly what it is.
So we've converted or opened up this JPEG into an image object that pillow gives us that we can now
manipulate.
So what can we do here.
Well first let's just see the image dot format.
And this property is going to say hey what is image format image format.
It's a JPEG because well it's a JPEG.
That's awesome.
So we get different properties here but what about size.
Can you tell us about the size.
Well yeah the size of the image is 640 by 640.
Awesome.
That's good.
We get some information what if we do mode here what does mode do.
Let's see now we see that the coloring is in our G.B. so that's red green blue.
All right.
Awesome let's clear the console here.
There you go.
Now remember we're able to figure out what kind of functions methods properties and attributes this
image has by doing the Jerk command.
Right.
So if I just remove this and do her over the image we get.
While all the things that this image has given to us.
And again this is something that we can check on the documentation Web sites as well.
OK.
But let's do something even more exciting.
You know what I want to do I want to be able to maybe add some filters maybe blur things in here.
Well pillow gives us this image filter that we can now filter the image with.
So how can we use it.
Well we can now have a filtered image and this filter image is going to equal the image that we've grabbed
and we're going to say dot filter.
And in here give it the image filter with some options.
So here we can do different things.
Let's do blur here.
So capital blur.
So now it's going to apply a filter of blurring.
So let's see what happens if I do this I'm going to instead of printing I'm actually going to say image
dot save.
And this is going to save the filtered image.
So let's do filtered image dot save and give it let's call it blur comma and then the extension that
we want to say that it lets us do PMG here.
We'll change it to a PMG file like this.
And if I run this look at that we have a new file blurred dot PMG here.
If I click on it pick it you is all blurred up.
You can see the original image right here and the blurred image.
How cool is that so let's do that again.
Let's do something else let's do maybe smooth.
Which is another filter that we can do.
If I run this again
all right.
We see that the image is now.
Well we can't really tell but it's smoother.
That's a filter that usually works better with landscape images.
We can also do something like sharpen.
And again you can read the documentation to see different filtering so that we can do.
But let's check this one out as well.
We've got the original and then the sharpened one here.
You know there's a bit of a notice Pikachu is looking very very sharp.
Now the reason that I've converted this into a G is because PMG supports these image filters so you
might get an error if you actually keep it as a jpeg you know what.
While we're at it let me show you another thing that we can do.
So instead of this filter image we can actually do something called convert and this converts the image
to different formats.
So one of the formats that we can actually do is something called grayscale which is with a capital
L..
So when I do convert like this this image and let's rename it to gray dot PMG if I run this my grade
up to Pikachu is in black and white so you can also convert images to different formats.
So remember we had the RG be red green blue format.
There's different formats that you can convert images to.
But this one looks pretty cool.
We've just great out pikachu.
Now this is just one picture that we've worked with but the power and what I'm going to show you in
the upcoming videos is how we can apply let's say a function like this to hundreds and thousands and
millions of images if we want and process them really fast.
But for now I think this is enough.
You can experiment and try different converts and try a different image filters on your own.
And we're going to learn some more in the next video by.